# Functionalities of the System:
              Exam  Management  System  (EMS)  has  many  functionalities.   Exam   Management   System   has   five   types  of  end-user   roles,   such   as   Registrar,   Course   Coordinator,   Faculty,   Exam   Controller,   Student.   For   every  end-user,  this  system  has  various  well-intended functionalities.

# Home  Page  and  common  features: 
              The  Exam  Management  System  has  a  fascinating  home  page  to attract users. EMS has some common features that can be  accessed  from  any  end-users  account.  Such  as  Every  user  can  log  in  and  logout  from  his/her  account.  Each user can update his/her profile information as well as  can  change  their  password,  also  users  can  change  their profile picture.

# Registrar:  
              The  registrar  has  some  general  role  in  the  management  system.  Registrar  has  a  dashboard  from  where  the  registrar  can  operate  all  kinds  of  operations  concerned  to  him.  From  the  dashboard,  the  registrar  can  view  and  update  his/her  profile  if  necessary  The  registrar   can   create   a   new   account   for   ‘Course Coordinator’,  ‘Faculty’,  and  ‘Student’.  The  registrar  also  can  create  new  departments  as  well  as  new  batches and   new   trimesters.   From   the   registrar   account   all   existing  departments,  batches,  students,  faculties  can  be  viewed.  The  registrar  can  assign  faculty  for  non-departmental    courses    for    any    department    if    the    departmental course coordinator wants.

# Course Coordinator: 
              Course  coordinator  of  a  department  has  some  very  important  roles  in  Exam  Management   System.   Course   coordinators   need   to   manage   the   work   process   between   students   and   faculty.  From  assign  faculties  to  assign  students,  a  course coordinator needs to do many important tasks. A course  coordinator  can  perform  all  these  operations  from his/her dashboard. A  course  coordinator  has  the  responsibility  to  set    faculties    maximum    credit    hours.    A    course    coordinator  can  assign  regular  courses  for  any  batch  also     can     assign     repeat/retake     courses     (with     batch/without  batch)  and  supplementary  courses  for  students. A course coordinator needs to assign faculties for  regular,  repeat/retake,  and  supplementary  courses  for  any  trimester  at  this  stage  course  coordinator  can  send a request   to the register for assigning faculties for non-departmental courses if necessary.

# Faculty:  
              Faculties are one of the most important parts of an educational institute. Faculties need to manage a lot of work besides  teaching. That’s why Exam Management  System  has  a  lot  of  facilities  for  faculties  that are accessible from their well-intended dashboard.Faculties examine students’ work and give them marks on the online mark sheet. Faculties can download the   mark   sheets   if   necessary.   Faculties   got   their   assigned  courses  and  batches  after  the  departmental Course Coordinator assigned them. Faculties got to see all   the   assigned   courses   and   students   from   their   accounts.  Faculties  examine  students’  work  and  give  them  marks  on  the  online  mark  sheet.  Faculties  can  download  the  mark  sheets  if  necessary.  Faculties  can  see  a  mark  update  information  if  the  exam  controller  updates   any   student’s   mark   who   was   assigned   to   him/her  for  that  course.  when  the  marking  of  trimester  final  will  be  done  faculties  will  be  able  to  submit  the  mark sheet to the Exam Controller.

# Exam Controller: 
              The Exam Controller starts his/her work after    faculties    submit    the   final   mark   sheet.   The   responsibility  of  the  Exam  Controller  is  to  publish  the  final trimester result at the most suitable time. When the Exam Controller will publish the trimester final result only then students will be able to see their trimester result on their  account.  The  Exam  Controller  can  manage  all  these tasks from his/her dashboard. The  exam  controller  can  see  all  mark  sheets  which  are  already  published  by  faculties  from  his/her  account.  The  exam  controller  has  the  responsibility  to  publish  the  trimester  final  result.  If  any  faculty  doesn’t  submit  a  trimester  mark  sheet  then  the  exam  controller  can see the list of those unsubmitted mark sheets.

# Students: 
              Students are the last part of this management system.  Students  can  see  their  results  when  all  other  users  have  finally  done  their  work.  Students  can  control  all features from their well-designed dashboard. Students  can  see  their  newly  published  results,  as  well  as  they,  can  see  their  old  results  searching  by  trimester  name.  Students  are  also  able  to  see  their  whole mark sheet transcript at once on one page which will  contain  all  the  results  of  the  already  published  results  and  CGPA  of  completed  trimesters.  Students’ dashboard  has  a  section  from  where  they  can  know  their remaining trimesters and credit hours.
